---
permalink: setup
title: Setting up your Reinforcement Learning Environment
layout: default
---

# {{page.title}}

In this lesson, we ensure that you have a working development setup for doing research in reinforcement learning. In later lessons, we may require specific packages or github repositories not included here. However, the following should get you up and running. For now, we assume you are developing on MacOS.

***

### Homebrew

[Homebrew](https://brew.sh/) is a package manager for unix that allows you to install most development packages from the command line view `brew install`. It is similar to `apt-get` for linux. Homebrew installs packages to their own directory and symlinks them into `usr/local`.

Paste the following into your terminal:
```console
/usr/bin/ruby -e "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/master/install)"
```

***

### Atom
[Atom](https://atom.io/) is a simple text editor with syntax highlighting support for many languages. It also supports [packages](https://atom.io/packages) that provides extra functionality, such as autocomplete.
```console
brew cask install atom
```
will install atom as an application. You can open atom from any directory using `atom` in terminal, or by opening it as a regular application.

***

### Conda and Python
We will be using python 3.6 for development. While you may have python on your system already, we will be using `conda` to ensure that all of our experiments use their own copy of python separate from the system one. This prevents cluttering the system python with unnecessary libraries, and allows us to easily alias the `python` and `pip` commands to the ones used for our experiments. I personally prefer conda to other solutions involving `virtualenv`.

Conda isn't available via `brew`, so [download it from their website](https://www.anaconda.com/distribution/#macos). Conda needs python to be installed initially, but we can set our own python versions when creating **conda environments** for our code.

Run the following in your terminal:

```console
bash ~/Downloads/Anaconda3-2019.03-MacOSX-x86_64.sh
```

replace `~/Downloads/` with the appropriate path if you chose to download it to another location. You can also install using the graphical user interface by clicking on the downloaded file.

##### Creating a Conda Environment

To create a new conda environment, use the following syntax:

```console
conda create -n environmentname python=x.x
```

To follow along, create a new environment called `rl-lessons` with python version 3.6. Press `y` to confirm you want to create the environment. Conda sets up environment variables that allow you to use `python` and `pip` to refer specifically to the ones created in your conda environment.

```console
conda create -n rl-lessons python=3.6
```

To activate the environment, use

```console
conda activate rl-lessons
```

and to deactivate, use

```console
conda deactivate
```

It is good practice to always deactivate the current environment before activating another.

***

### Python Libraries

There are some python packages we will need throughout our lessons. [Tensorflow](https://www.tensorflow.org/) will be responsible for doing much of the heavy lifting for us. Conda automatically installs any dependencies for tensorflow, including other libraries that we will make use of.

```console
conda install tensorflow opencv seaborn jupyter
```

*(This will probably take a while).*

##### OpenAI Gym

We will make extensive use of OpenAI's [`gym`](https://gym.openai.com/) library as our main interface to reinforcement learning. To have access some of `gym`'s environments, we need to install `cmake` and `zlib`

```console
brew install cmake zlib
```

Then, we can install `gym` using pip. Conda allows us to mix packages installed via `pip` and via `conda install`.

```console
pip install gym[atari]
```

### Jupyter Notebooks

Jupyter notebooks are great tools because they allow you to combine [markdown]() and python code in a single, interactive, runnable document. There are some [great resources](https://hub.mybinder.org/user/ipython-ipython-in-depth-hecv84xa/notebooks/examples/Notebook/Notebook%20Basics.ipynb) on using jupyter notebooks, which you are encouraged to check out. Most of the lessons in this series will be jupyter notebooks that you can either view or download and run yourself.

test $$ a_t $$
